[Go to YouTube Extractor Wiki](https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp/wiki/Extractors#youtube)

# YouTube PO Token Guide

> [!TIP]
> TL;DR recommended setup: Either use a [plugin](#plugins), or [manual extraction](#guide-providing-a-po-token-manually-for-use-with-mweb-client), to provide the `mweb` client with a [PO Token for GVS requests](#cases-where-a-po-token-is-required).
> 
> See the notice in the [YouTube Extractor Wiki](https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp/wiki/Extractors#youtube) for more information on the current state of downloading videos from YouTube.


<!-- TOC -->
* [YouTube PO Token Guide](#youtube-po-token-guide)
  * [Introduction](#introduction)
  * [Cases where a PO Token is required](#cases-where-a-po-token-is-required)
    * [Current PO Token enforcement](#current-po-token-enforcement)
  * [Plugins](#plugins)
  * [Guide: Providing a PO Token manually (for use with `mweb` client)](#guide-providing-a-po-token-manually-for-use-with-mweb-client)
    * [PO Token for GVS](#po-token-for-gvs)
      * [No account](#no-account)
      * [With an account](#with-an-account)
    * [PO Token for Player or Subs](#po-token-for-player-or-subs)
  * [Other PO Token related tools](#other-po-token-related-tools)
  * [Technical details](#technical-details)
    * [PO Tokens for GVS](#po-tokens-for-gvs)
    * [PO Tokens for Player and Subs](#po-tokens-for-player-and-subs)
<!-- TOC -->


## Introduction

Proof of Origin (PO) Token is a parameter that YouTube requires to be sent with requests from some clients. Without it, requests for the affected clients' format URLs may return HTTP Error 403, or result in your account or IP address being blocked.

A PO Token is generated by an attestation provider on Web, Android and iOS platforms to attest the requests are coming from a genuine client.

For yt-dlp, you can provide PO Token(s) using the [`po_token` extractor argument](https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp#youtube), or you can [install a plugin](#plugins) that hooks into the YouTube extractor to handle fetching a PO Token.

For more technical details on these tokens, refer to the [technical details section](#technical-details).

## Cases where a PO Token is required

There are currently two cases yt-dlp may require PO Tokens for video downloads, [depending on the client used](#current-po-token-enforcement):
- GVS: Google Video Server requests
- Player: Innertube `player` requests
- Subs: Subtitle requests

The PO Tokens may be generated differently for each of these cases, depending on the client.

### Current PO Token enforcement

YouTube is at present rolling out changes to enforce PO Tokens for video playback. Currently, only GVS and Subs require PO Tokens for some clients.

| Client         | PO Token for GVS Required | PO Token for Player Required | PO Token for Subs required | Notes                                            |
|----------------|---------------------------|------------------------------|----------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|
| `web`          | Yes                       | No                           | Sometimes (A/B test)       | Only SABR formats available                      |
| `web_safari`   | Yes*                      | No                           | Sometimes (A/B test)       |                                                  |
| `mweb`         | Yes                       | No                           | No                         |                                                  |
| `tv`           | No                        | No                           | No                         | All formats may have DRM if you request too much |
| `tv_embedded`  | No                        | No                           | No                         | Requires account cookies                         |
| `web_embedded` | No                        | No                           | No                         | Only embeddable videos available                 |
| `web_music`    | Yes                       | No                           | No                         |                                                  |
| `web_creator`  | Yes                       | No                           | No                         | Requires account cookies                         |
| `android`      | Yes?                      | ?                            | No                         | Account cookies not supported                    |
| `android_vr`   | No                        | No                           | No                         | YouTube Kids videos are not available            |
| `ios`          | Yes?*                     | ?                            | No                         | Account cookies not supported                    |

*Client provides HLS (m3u8) formats which do not require PO Token for GVS at this time.

You can select what client to use with the [`player_client` extractor argument](https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp#youtube).

## Plugins

Manually fetching PO Tokens can be a tedious process. As an alternative, you can use PO Token Provider plugin to handle fetching PO Tokens automatically.

### Featured Plugins

- [bgutil-ytdlp-pot-provider](https://github.com/Brainicism/bgutil-ytdlp-pot-provider) by [Brainicism](https://github.com/Brainicism)
  - A PO Token Provider which uses [BgUtils](https://github.com/LuanRT/BgUtils) to generate PO Tokens. _Not affiliated with yt-dlp._

Check out the [yt-dlp-pot-provider GitHub topic](https://github.com/topics/yt-dlp-pot-provider) for more PO Token Provider plugins.

Also see the [yt-dlp-plugins GitHub topic](https://github.com/topics/yt-dlp-plugins) and the [yt-dlp plugin wiki](https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp/wiki/Plugins) to explore more yt-dlp plugins.

For developers: [PO Token Framework developer documentation](https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp/tree/master/yt_dlp/extractor/youtube/pot/README.md)

## Guide: Providing a PO Token manually (for use with `mweb` client)

This section provides a basic guide on extracting PO Token(s) manually from YouTube in a web browser **for use with the `mweb` client**, and manually passing it to yt-dlp via the [`po_token` extractor argument](https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp#youtube). 
The same PO Token extraction method _may_ work with other web browser-based clients too.

> [!TIP]
> When supplying multiple PO Tokens, use the same extractor args option and comma-separate the PO Token configurations. For example:
>   `--extractor-args "youtube:po_token=mweb.gvs+GVS_PO_TOKEN_VALUE_HERE,mweb.player+PLAYER_PO_TOKEN_VALUE_HERE"`


### PO Token for GVS

The PO Token used for `web` GVS requests is tied to your YouTube session. It generated differently depending on if you are logged in to yt-dlp or not.

#### No account

1. Open [YouTube Music](https://music.youtube.com) or YouTube Embedded (e.g. https://www.youtube.com/embed/aqz-KE-bpKQ) in a browser.  **Make sure you are not logged in to any account!**
2. Open any video
3. Open the developer console (F12), then go to the "Network" tab (click the `>>` button if you don't see it)
4. Filter requests by `googlevideo.com`
5. Click the video and play for a few seconds - requests to `googlevideo.com` should appear in the network tab
6. From the most recent `googlevideo.com` request, extract the `pot` query parameter value from the URL
7. Pass the PO Token for GVS to yt-dlp using `--extractor-args "youtube:player-client=default,mweb;po_token=mweb.gvs+PO_TOKEN_VALUE_HERE"` with cookies (`--cookies COOKIES_FILE` or `--cookies-from-browser`)

Although not recommended, you may also provide visitor data instead of cookies. Refer to [Passing Visitor Data without cookies](https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp/wiki/Extractors#passing-visitor-data-without-cookies).

#### With an account

1. Open [YouTube Music](https://music.youtube.com) in a browser, and log in with the user you are using with yt-dlp
2. Open any video
3. Follow steps 3-6 above
4. Pass the PO Token for GVS to yt-dlp using `--extractor-args "youtube:player-client=default,mweb;po_token=mweb.gvs+PO_TOKEN_VALUE_HERE"` [with your account cookies ](https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp/wiki/Extractors#exporting-youtube-cookies)

Addendum:
- If there is no `pot` parameter in the `googlevideo.com` URL, wait a few seconds for more requests to be made and check them. 
- If there is a `sabr=1` query parameter in the `googlevideo.com` URL, then the PO Token is in the request body protobuf (and therefore is not easy to extract). 
  - This should not be the case for YouTube Music or YouTube Embedded - if so, please raise an issue, so we can update these docs.


### PO Token for Player or Subs

The PO Token for `web`/`mweb` Player or Subs requests is tied to the Video ID. This means you must generate a new PO Token for each video.

1. Open [YouTube Web](https://www.youtube.com) in a browser.
2. Open the developer console (F12), then go to the "Network" tab and filter by `v1/player`
3. Navigate to the video you want to download (e.g. using search - do not go to the video url directly as the page will refresh)
4. In the request payload JSON, find the PO Token at `serviceIntegrityDimensions.poToken` and save that value
5. Export cookies from the browser

**For Subs PO Token:**
- Pass the PO Token for Subs to yt-dlp using `--extractor-args "youtube:po_token=web.subs+PO_TOKEN_VALUE_HERE"`

**For Player PO Token:**
> [!NOTE]
> If you are using the `web` client and have not disabled the `webpage` request, providing this PO Token is not necessary at this time. 

- Pass the PO Token for Player to yt-dlp using `--extractor-args "youtube:player-client=default,mweb;po_token=mweb.player+PO_TOKEN_VALUE_HERE"`


## Other PO Token related tools

- [BgUtils](https://github.com/LuanRT/BgUtils) by [LuanRT](https://github.com/LuanRT)
  - Utility to generate PoTokens and run BotGuard attestation challenges. 
- [YouTube Trusted Session Generator](https://github.com/iv-org/youtube-trusted-session-generator) by [Invidious](https://github.com/iv-org)
  - A generator for getting a session that passes all the checks from YouTube side

## Technical details

PO Tokens are still an active area of research, and at the same time YouTube is continuously updating the implementation and enforcement. The following information is based on the current understanding of PO Tokens, and is subject to change.

A PO Token is generated by either BotGuard (Web), DroidGuard (Android), iOSGuard (iOS). A PO Token from one platform cannot be used on another (i.e., Web PO Token cannot be used on Android or iOS).

If you are interested, we recommend checking out the [BgUtils](https://github.com/LuanRT/BgUtils) project which does a deeper dive into the BotGuard attestation process.

### PO Tokens for GVS

GVS uses a PO token bound to the user session.

For Web session tokens:
- When logged out, are bound to a Visitor ID. This Visitor ID is found in the `VISITOR_INFO1_LIVE` cookie, in the `visitorData` value which is sent with Innertube API requests, or with `ytcfg.get('VISITOR_DATA')` in the browser console.
- When logged in, are bound to the account Session ID (first part of the Data Sync ID). This can be found at `responseContext.mainAppWebResponseContext.dataSyncId` in Innertube responses, or with `ytcfg.get('DATASYNC_ID')` in the browser console.

If a video download fails with an HTTP 403 midway through, then the client likely requires a PO Token for GVS.

These PO Tokens are only valid for a limited time (usually at least 12 hours), so it will need to be refreshed periodically. However, some reports suggest that the token may be valid for many days.

### PO Tokens for Player and Subs

Web Tokens for player (and subtitle) requests are bound to the video ID the associated `/player` request is for. YouTube has only recently started generating these for some clients (e.g. `web`).

As of writing, some clients, such as `web_music` use a session-bound PO Token for player requests. This is likely to change.
